In Obsidian, we want to organize **notes**. I believe that, if we want to organize these notes, we have to think of each note as being an *object*. Each object has its own characteristics which describe its nature. These "characteristics" about are purely theoretical and exist only in the mind of the organizer. What I mean by this is that, when we create a note, we already have an idea about the nature of the object that it describes. If my note is something like `dog.md`, then I already know that it should be a child of `mammals.md`. The trick is figuring out a way to model our mental connexions into real data types. This is exactly what I explain below. However, once we have successfully decided on the way in which we want to represent our objects, we need to place them in our vault.

I think that the best method for organizing objects in Obsidian follows a tree-like structure. In this tree like structure, we simply create what I'm going to call ***search pathways***. Each search pathways begins at the origine note, which I usual give the name of "MOC". A search pathway is simply a series of objects of smaller and smaller generalities, which continues until the desired note (object) finds its place in the structure. It's true, of course, that multiple search pathways have the potential of leading to the same note, and this is perfectly fine; in fact, it fits perfectly with my [[semi-rigid organization]] model. 

## Two different ways of positioning objects in the structure

If we want to position an object in our MOC, we have multiple choices. We can either use links, or we can use [[metadata]]. When we use links, objects are located in the contents of our `.md` files; however, when we use metadata, objects are located in our `.base` files. 

N.B. Both methods can be used in tandem. 